UPGRADE-3.x.md, before:

UPGRADE 3.x
===========

Injecting the block id into a service is deprecated and will be automatically set.

Instead, provide an empty argument:

## Before
```
    <service id="acme.block.service" class="Acme\BlockBundle\AcmeBlockService">
        <tag name="sonata.block"/>
        <argument>acme.block.service</argument>
    </service>
```

## After
```
    <service id="acme.block.service" class="Acme\BlockBundle\AcmeBlockService">
        <tag name="sonata.block"/>
        <argument/>
    </service>
```

UPGRADE FROM 3.1 to 3.2
=======================

## Deprecated block classes and interfaces

The `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\AbstractBlockService` and `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\BaseBlockService` classes are deprecated.
Use `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\AbstractBlockService` for normal blocks
or `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\AbstractAdminBlockService` for manageable blocks instead.

The interfaces `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\BlockServiceInterface` and `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\BlockAdminServiceInterface` are deprecated.

UPGRADE FROM 3.0 to 3.1
=======================

## Deprecated test classes

The `Tests\Block\Service\FakeTemplating` class is deprecated. Use `Test\FakeTemplating` instead.
This is introduced on 3.1.1 because of a forgotten needed Merge Request.

## Deprecated AbstractBlockServiceTest class

The `Tests\Block\AbstractBlockServiceTest` class is deprecated. Use `Test\AbstractBlockServiceTestCase` instead.

### Tests

All files under the ``Tests`` directory are now correctly handled as internal test classes.
You can't extend them anymore, because they are only loaded when running internal tests.
More information can be found in the [composer docs](https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#autoload-dev).

Commit message:

Created menu manager for MenuBlockService

UPGRADE-3.x.md, after:

UPGRADE 3.x
===========

## Menu blocks

Menus for the `MenuBlockService` can now be defined by a `<tag name="sonata.block.menu"/>` tag. 
Defining the blocks via `sonata_block.menus` is deprecated.

## Inject blocks

Injecting the block id into a service is deprecated and will be automatically set.


Instead, provide an empty argument:

### Before
```
    <service id="acme.block.service" class="Acme\BlockBundle\AcmeBlockService">
        <tag name="sonata.block"/>
        <argument>acme.block.service</argument>
    </service>
```

### After
```
    <service id="acme.block.service" class="Acme\BlockBundle\AcmeBlockService">
        <tag name="sonata.block"/>
        <argument/>
    </service>
```

UPGRADE FROM 3.1 to 3.2
=======================

## Deprecated block classes and interfaces

The `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\AbstractBlockService` and `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\BaseBlockService` classes are deprecated.
Use `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\AbstractBlockService` for normal blocks
or `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\AbstractAdminBlockService` for manageable blocks instead.

The interfaces `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\BlockServiceInterface` and `Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\BlockAdminServiceInterface` are deprecated.

UPGRADE FROM 3.0 to 3.1
=======================

## Deprecated test classes

The `Tests\Block\Service\FakeTemplating` class is deprecated. Use `Test\FakeTemplating` instead.
This is introduced on 3.1.1 because of a forgotten needed Merge Request.

## Deprecated AbstractBlockServiceTest class

The `Tests\Block\AbstractBlockServiceTest` class is deprecated. Use `Test\AbstractBlockServiceTestCase` instead.

### Tests

All files under the ``Tests`` directory are now correctly handled as internal test classes.
You can't extend them anymore, because they are only loaded when running internal tests.
More information can be found in the [composer docs](https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#autoload-dev).
