Resources/doc/reference/cache.rst, before:

Cache
=====

BlockBundle integrates the CacheBundle to handle block cache. The cache unit stored in the backend is a Response object
from the HttpFoundation Component. Why a Response object ? It is a simple element, which content the data (the body) and some
metadata (the headers). As the block returns a Response object, it is possible to send it to the client, this use case
can be quite usefull for some cache backend (esi, ssi or js)

Cache Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The BlockBundle assumes that a block can be cached by default, so if a cache backend is configured, the block response
will be stored. The default ttl is 84600 seconds. Now, there are many way to control this behavior:

* set a ``ttl`` settings inside the block, so if ``ttl`` = 0, then no cache will be available for the block and its parents
* set a ``use_cache`` settings to ``false`` or ``true``, if the variable is set to ``false`` then no cache will be avaible for the block and its parents
* no cache backend by default! by default there is no cache backend setup, you should focus on raw performance before adding cache layers

Block TTL computation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The BlockBundle uses the TTL value from the Response object to compute the final TTL value. As block can have children, the
smallest ttl need to be used in parent block responses. This job is done by the ``BlockRenderer`` class, this service stores
a state with the last response and compare the ttl with the current response. The state is reseted when the block does not have
any parent.

The cache mechanism will use the TTL to set a valid value when the response is stored into the cache backend.

.. note::

    If a ttl is set into a block container, the ttl value is not applyed to the final Response object send to the client.
    This can be done by using a different mechanism

Final Response TTL computation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``BlockRendered`` stores a global states for the smallest ttl available, there is another service used to store the smallest
``ttl`` for the page: ``HttpCacheHandler``. Why two services ? This has been done to add an extra layers of control.

The ``HttpCacheHandler::updateMetadata`` is called by the templating helper when the response is retrieved, then an event
listener is registered to alter the final Response.

The service can be configured using the ``http_cache_handler`` key.

.. code-block:: yaml

    sonata_block:
        http_cache_handler: sonata.block.cache.handler.noop    # no cache alteration
        http_cache_handler: sonata.block.cache.handler.default # default value

Cache Backends
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``sonata.cache.mongo``: use mongodb to store cache element, this is a nice backend as you can remove some cache element by
only one value. (remove all block where profile.media.id == 3 is used.)
* ``sonata.cache.memcached``: use memcached as a backend, shared accross multiple hosts
* ``sonata.cache.apc``: use apc from PHP runtime, cannot be shared accross multiple hosts, and it is not suitable to store high volume of data
* ``sonata.cache.esi``: use a ESI compatible backend to store the cache, like Varnish
* ``sonata.cache.ssi``: use a SSI compatible backend to store the cache, like Apache or Nginx

Cache configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The configuration is defined per block service, so if you want to use memcached for a block type ``sonata.page.block.container`` then
use the following configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    sonata_block:
        sonata.page.block.container:
            cache: sonata.cache.memcached

Please make sure the memcached backend is configured in the ``sonata_cache`` definition:

.. code-block:: yaml

    sonata_cache:
        caches:
            memcached:
                prefix: test     # prefix to ensure there is no clash between instances
                servers:
                    - {host: 127.0.0.1, port: 11211, weight: 0}

Commit message:

Add a response listener to alter the final client Response

Resources/doc/reference/cache.rst, after:

Cache
=====

BlockBundle integrates the CacheBundle to handle block cache. The cache unit stored in the backend is a Response object
from the HttpFoundation Component. Why a Response object ? It is a simple element, which content the data (the body) and some
metadata (the headers). As the block returns a Response object, it is possible to send it to the client, this use case
can be quite usefull for some cache backend (esi, ssi or js)

Cache Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The BlockBundle assumes that a block can be cached by default, so if a cache backend is configured, the block response
will be stored. The default ttl is 84600 seconds. Now, there are many way to control this behavior:

* set a ``ttl`` settings inside the block, so if ``ttl`` = 0, then no cache will be available for the block and its parents
* set a ``use_cache`` settings to ``false`` or ``true``, if the variable is set to ``false`` then no cache will be avaible for the block and its parents
* no cache backend by default! by default there is no cache backend setup, you should focus on raw performance before adding cache layers

Block TTL computation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The BlockBundle uses the TTL value from the Response object to compute the final TTL value. As block can have children, the
smallest ttl need to be used in parent block responses. This job is done by the ``BlockRenderer`` class, this service stores
a state with the last response and compare the ttl with the current response. The state is reseted when the block does not have
any parent.

The cache mechanism will use the TTL to set a valid value when the response is stored into the cache backend.

.. note::

    If a ttl is set into a block container, the ttl value is not applyed to the final Response object send to the client.
    This can be done by using a different mechanism

Final Response TTL computation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``BlockRendered`` stores a global states for the smallest ttl available, there is another service used to store the smallest
``ttl`` for the page: ``HttpCacheHandler``. Why two services ? This has been done to add an extra layers of control.

The ``HttpCacheHandler::updateMetadata`` is called by the templating helper when the response is retrieved, then an event
listener is registered to alter the final Response.

The service can be configured using the ``http_cache_handler`` key.

.. code-block:: yaml

    sonata_block:
        http_cache:
            handler: sonata.block.cache.handler.noop    # no cache alteration
            handler: sonata.block.cache.handler.default # default value
            listener: true|false                        # default to true, register or not the event listener to alter the final response

Cache Backends
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``sonata.cache.mongo``: use mongodb to store cache element, this is a nice backend as you can remove some cache element by
only one value. (remove all block where profile.media.id == 3 is used.)
* ``sonata.cache.memcached``: use memcached as a backend, shared accross multiple hosts
* ``sonata.cache.apc``: use apc from PHP runtime, cannot be shared accross multiple hosts, and it is not suitable to store high volume of data
* ``sonata.cache.esi``: use a ESI compatible backend to store the cache, like Varnish
* ``sonata.cache.ssi``: use a SSI compatible backend to store the cache, like Apache or Nginx

Cache configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The configuration is defined per block service, so if you want to use memcached for a block type ``sonata.page.block.container`` then
use the following configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    sonata_block:
        sonata.page.block.container:
            cache: sonata.cache.memcached

Please make sure the memcached backend is configured in the ``sonata_cache`` definition:

.. code-block:: yaml

    sonata_cache:
        caches:
            memcached:
                prefix: test     # prefix to ensure there is no clash between instances
                servers:
                    - {host: 127.0.0.1, port: 11211, weight: 0}
