Resources/doc/reference/your_first_block.rst, before:

.. index::
    single: Block
    single: Tutorial
    single: RSS Block

Your first block
================

This quick tutorial explains how to create an `RSS reader` block.

A `block service` is just a service which must implement the ``BlockServiceInterface`` interface. There is only one instance of a block service, however there are many block instances.

First namespaces
----------------

The ``AbstractBlockService`` implements some basic methods defined by the interface.
The current RSS block will extend this base class. The other `use` statements are required by the interface's remaining methods.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    namespace Sonata\BlockBundle\Block;

    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
    use Symfony\Component\OptionsResolver\OptionsResolverInterface;

    use Sonata\BlockBundle\Model\BlockInterface;
    use Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\BlockContextInterface;

    use Sonata\AdminBundle\Form\FormMapper;
    use Sonata\CoreBundle\Validator\ErrorElement;
    use Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\AbstractBlockService;

Default settings
----------------

A `block service` needs settings to work properly, so to ensure consistency, the service should define a ``setDefaultSettings`` method.
In the current tutorial, the default settings are:

* `URL`: the feed url,
* `title`: the block title,
* `template`: the template to render the block.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    public function setDefaultSettings(OptionsResolverInterface $resolver)
    {
        $resolver->setDefaults(array(
            'url'      => false,
            'title'    => 'Insert the rss title',
            'template' => 'SonataBlockBundle:Block:block_core_rss.html.twig',
        ));
    }

Form Editing
------------
In order to allow editing forms, the ``BlockBundle`` relies on the ``AdminBundle``.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    public function buildEditForm(FormMapper $formMapper, BlockInterface $block)
    {
        $formMapper
            ->add('settings', 'sonata_type_immutable_array', array(
                'keys' => array(
                    array('url', 'url', array('required' => false)),
                    array('title', 'text', array('required' => false)),
                )
            ))
        ;
    }

The validation is done at runtime through a ``validateBlock`` method. You can call any Symfony2 assertions, like:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    public function validateBlock(ErrorElement $errorElement, BlockInterface $block)
    {
        $errorElement
            ->with('settings.url')
                ->assertNotNull(array())
                ->assertNotBlank()
            ->end()
            ->with('settings.title')
                ->assertNotNull(array())
                ->assertNotBlank()
                ->assertMaxLength(array('limit' => 50))
            ->end()
        ;
    }

The ``sonata_type_immutable_array`` type is a specific `form type` which allows to edit an array.

Execute
-------

The next step is to implement the `execute` method. This method must return a ``Response`` object, which is used to render the block.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    public function execute(BlockContextInterface $blockContext, Response $response = null)
    {
        // merge settings
        $settings = $blockContext->getSettings();
        $feeds = false;

        if ($settings['url']) {
            $options = array(
                'http' => array(
                    'user_agent' => 'Sonata/RSS Reader',
                    'timeout' => 2,
                )
            );

            // retrieve contents with a specific stream context to avoid php errors
            $content = @file_get_contents($settings['url'], false, stream_context_create($options));

            if ($content) {
                // generate a simple xml element
                try {
                    $feeds = new \SimpleXMLElement($content);
                    $feeds = $feeds->channel->item;
                } catch (\Exception $e) {
                    // silently fail error
                }
            }
        }

        return $this->renderResponse($blockContext->getTemplate(), array(
            'feeds'     => $feeds,
            'block'     => $blockContext->getBlock(),
            'settings'  => $settings
        ), $response);
    }

Template
--------

In this tutorial, the block template is very simple. We loop through feeds, or if none are available, an error message is displayed.

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% extends sonata_block.templates.block_base %}

    {% block block %}
        <h3 class="sonata-feed-title">{{ settings.title }}</h3>

        <div class="sonata-feeds-container">
            {% for feed in feeds %}
                <div>
                    <strong><a href="{{ feed.link}}" rel="nofollow" title="{{ feed.title }}">{{ feed.title }}</a></strong>
                    <div>{{ feed.description|raw }}</div>
                </div>
            {% else %}
                    No feeds available.
            {% endfor %}
        </div>
    {% endblock %}

Service
-------

We are almost done! Now, just declare the block as a service:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: xml

        <service id="sonata.block.service.rss" class="Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\RssBlockService">
            <tag name="sonata.block" />
            <argument/>
            <argument type="service" id="templating" />
        </service>

    .. code-block:: yaml

        services:
            sonata.block.service.rss:
                class: Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\RssBlockService
                arguments:
                    - sonata.block.service.rss
                    - "@templating"
                tags:
                    - { name: sonata.block }

Then, add the service to Sonata configuration:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # app/config/config.yml

        sonata_block:
            blocks:
                sonata.block.service.rss: ~

If you want to set up caching, take a look at the SonataCacheBundle support documentation: :doc:`cache`.

Commit message:

Added a note about setDefaultSettings
I ran into this while trying to create my first block in the Sonata Admin bundle.
The documentation at this point did not work for version 3.2.0 of the Block Bundle, so I added a note about how to make it work.

Resources/doc/reference/your_first_block.rst, after:

.. index::
    single: Block
    single: Tutorial
    single: RSS Block

Your first block
================

This quick tutorial explains how to create an `RSS reader` block.

A `block service` is just a service which must implement the ``BlockServiceInterface`` interface. There is only one instance of a block service, however there are many block instances.

First namespaces
----------------

The ``AbstractBlockService`` implements some basic methods defined by the interface.
The current RSS block will extend this base class. The other `use` statements are required by the interface's remaining methods.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    namespace Sonata\BlockBundle\Block;

    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
    use Symfony\Component\OptionsResolver\OptionsResolverInterface;

    use Sonata\BlockBundle\Model\BlockInterface;
    use Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\BlockContextInterface;

    use Sonata\AdminBundle\Form\FormMapper;
    use Sonata\CoreBundle\Validator\ErrorElement;
    use Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\AbstractBlockService;

Default settings
----------------

A `block service` needs settings to work properly, so to ensure consistency, the service should define a ``setDefaultSettings`` method.
In the current tutorial, the default settings are:

* `URL`: the feed url,
* `title`: the block title,
* `template`: the template to render the block.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    public function setDefaultSettings(OptionsResolverInterface $resolver)
    {
        $resolver->setDefaults(array(
            'url'      => false,
            'title'    => 'Insert the rss title',
            'template' => 'SonataBlockBundle:Block:block_core_rss.html.twig',
        ));
    }

.. note::

    For version 3.2 of the block-bundle, you want to use the function configureSettings(OptionsResolver $resolver) { ... }.

Form Editing
------------
In order to allow editing forms, the ``BlockBundle`` relies on the ``AdminBundle``.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    public function buildEditForm(FormMapper $formMapper, BlockInterface $block)
    {
        $formMapper
            ->add('settings', 'sonata_type_immutable_array', array(
                'keys' => array(
                    array('url', 'url', array('required' => false)),
                    array('title', 'text', array('required' => false)),
                )
            ))
        ;
    }

The validation is done at runtime through a ``validateBlock`` method. You can call any Symfony2 assertions, like:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    public function validateBlock(ErrorElement $errorElement, BlockInterface $block)
    {
        $errorElement
            ->with('settings.url')
                ->assertNotNull(array())
                ->assertNotBlank()
            ->end()
            ->with('settings.title')
                ->assertNotNull(array())
                ->assertNotBlank()
                ->assertMaxLength(array('limit' => 50))
            ->end()
        ;
    }

The ``sonata_type_immutable_array`` type is a specific `form type` which allows to edit an array.

Execute
-------

The next step is to implement the `execute` method. This method must return a ``Response`` object, which is used to render the block.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    public function execute(BlockContextInterface $blockContext, Response $response = null)
    {
        // merge settings
        $settings = $blockContext->getSettings();
        $feeds = false;

        if ($settings['url']) {
            $options = array(
                'http' => array(
                    'user_agent' => 'Sonata/RSS Reader',
                    'timeout' => 2,
                )
            );

            // retrieve contents with a specific stream context to avoid php errors
            $content = @file_get_contents($settings['url'], false, stream_context_create($options));

            if ($content) {
                // generate a simple xml element
                try {
                    $feeds = new \SimpleXMLElement($content);
                    $feeds = $feeds->channel->item;
                } catch (\Exception $e) {
                    // silently fail error
                }
            }
        }

        return $this->renderResponse($blockContext->getTemplate(), array(
            'feeds'     => $feeds,
            'block'     => $blockContext->getBlock(),
            'settings'  => $settings
        ), $response);
    }

Template
--------

In this tutorial, the block template is very simple. We loop through feeds, or if none are available, an error message is displayed.

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% extends sonata_block.templates.block_base %}

    {% block block %}
        <h3 class="sonata-feed-title">{{ settings.title }}</h3>

        <div class="sonata-feeds-container">
            {% for feed in feeds %}
                <div>
                    <strong><a href="{{ feed.link}}" rel="nofollow" title="{{ feed.title }}">{{ feed.title }}</a></strong>
                    <div>{{ feed.description|raw }}</div>
                </div>
            {% else %}
                    No feeds available.
            {% endfor %}
        </div>
    {% endblock %}

Service
-------

We are almost done! Now, just declare the block as a service:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: xml

        <service id="sonata.block.service.rss" class="Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\RssBlockService">
            <tag name="sonata.block" />
            <argument/>
            <argument type="service" id="templating" />
        </service>

    .. code-block:: yaml

        services:
            sonata.block.service.rss:
                class: Sonata\BlockBundle\Block\Service\RssBlockService
                arguments:
                    - sonata.block.service.rss
                    - "@templating"
                tags:
                    - { name: sonata.block }

Then, add the service to Sonata configuration:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # app/config/config.yml

        sonata_block:
            blocks:
                sonata.block.service.rss: ~

If you want to set up caching, take a look at the SonataCacheBundle support documentation: :doc:`cache`.
